Add docs for deploy api to microgateway via APIM and apictl (#3494)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/api-microgateway/deploy-api/deploy-api-to-microgateway.md

# Deploy an API to Microgateway

There are two ways to add an API to the Microgateway.

1. [Via API Manager](#via-api-manager)

    By enabling the Control Plane Event Hub in the Microgateway configuration file, the APIs deployed in API Manager will automatically be available in Microgateway. 

2. [Via the CLI tool (apictl)](#via-the-cli-tool-apictl)

>     If you are not using WSO2 API Manager yet, or only want to tryout microgateway, simply use the CLI tool [apictl](https://github.com/wso2/product-apim-tooling/releases) to host your API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you are not using WSO2 API Manager yet, or only want to try out Microgateway, simply use the CLI tool [apictl](https://github.com/wso2/product-apim-tooling/releases) to host your API.
```

Author: Added the changes

## Via API Manager

!!! info
    **Before you begin**

    - Make sure you have installed Docker and Docker Compose on your machine.

    - Download the latest [Microgateway 4.0.0 release](https://github.com/wso2/product-microgateway/releases)and extract it to a folder of your choice. The extracted folder will be referred to as `MG_HOME` here onwards.

>     - This guide assumes that you have already started the WSO2 API Manager instance. If not, download the latest [release](https://github.com/wso2/product-apim/releases)and follow the steps [here](https://github.com/wso2/product-apim#installation--running)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - This guide assumes that you have already started the WSO2 API Manager instance. If not, download the latest [release](https://github.com/wso2/product-apim/releases) and follow the steps [here](https://github.com/wso2/product-apim#installation--running).
```

Author: Added the changes

In the `[controlPlane.eventHub]` section,

 - set `enabled` to true
 - update `serviceUrl` with the IP and the port of API Manager
 - if you want to use a Gateway Environment other than the default, update `environmentLabels` with the name of the new Gateway Environment. If not, leave the default value `"Production and Sandbox"` as it is.

 Example
 ``` yaml
 [controlPlane.eventHub]
  enabled = true
  serviceUrl = "https://192.168.1.94:9443/"
  username="admin"
  password="$env{cp_admin_pwd}"
  environmentLabels = ["Production and Sandbox"]
  retryInterval = 5
  skipSSLVerification=true
  # Message broker connection URL of the control plane
  [controlPlane.eventHub.jmsConnectionParameters]
    eventListeningEndpoints = ["amqp://admin:$env{cp_admin_pwd}@apim:5672?retries='10'&connectdelay='30'"]
 ``` 

!!! tip

    In API Manager, a new Gateway Environment can be created from the Admin Portal (available at `https:<apim-host>:<apim-port>/admin`) **Gateways** tab.

### Step 3 - Start the Microgateway

Now, let's start the microgateway. Navigate to `MG_HOME` and execute the following command.
    
``` bash
docker-compose up -d
```

That's it!

> During the startup, Microgateway will check the `config.toml` to see if the `controlPlane.eventHub` configuration has been enabled. If so, it will start fetching all the necessary artifacts that belongs to the gateway environment given in `environmentLabels`. These artifacts include deployed APIs, Applications, Subscriptions, Polices, information related to Key Managers, and etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the startup, Microgateway will check the `config.toml` to see if the `controlPlane.eventHub` configuration has been enabled. If so, it will start fetching all the necessary artifacts that belongs to the gateway environment given in `environmentLabels`. These artifacts include deployed APIs, Applications, Subscriptions, Polices, information related to Key Managers, etc.
```

Author: Added the change

> Whenever a new event occurs in API manager such as an API being deployed, API Manager will notify Microgateway via the eventhub. Microgateway will then start fetching all the new artifacts related to its environment.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever a new event occurs in API Manager such as an API being deployed, API Manager will notify Microgateway via the event hub. Microgateway will then start fetching all the new artifacts related to its environment.  
```

Author: Added the changes

> 

Author: Added the necessary links

## Via the CLI tool (apictl) 

!!! info
    **Before you begin**

>     This guide assumes that you already have a microgateway instance is up and running. If not, checkout the [quick start guide]({{base_path}}/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/api-microgateway/getting-started/quick-start-guide/quick-start-guide-overview) on how to install and run the microgateway. To learn more about the microgateway, have a look at the [overview of microgateway]({{base_path}}/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/api-microgateway/getting-started/api-microgateway-overview). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This guide assumes that you already have a Microgateway instance that is up and running. If not, checkout the [quick start guide]({{base_path}}/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/api-microgateway/getting-started/quick-start-guide/quick-start-guide-overview) on how to install and run the Microgateway. To learn more about the Microgateway, have a look at the [overview of Microgateway]({{base_path}}/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/api-microgateway/getting-started/api-microgateway-overview). 
```

Author: Added the changes

``` bash
apictl init petstore --oas https://petstore.swagger.io/v2/swagger.json
```

### Step 3 - Add an Mcrogateway Environment to apictl

To use apictl for Microgateway, a Microgateway environment needs to be added to apictl. This environment will hold the adapter URL for further commands.

``` bash
apictl mg add env dev --adapter https://localhost:9843
```

!!! info

    Note `mg` in the above command. The apictl commands that starts as `apictl mg` are microgateway specific. If a command does not have `mg` after `apictl` then the command could probably be common to both Microgateway and API Manager, but it could also be API Manager specific. 

!!! tip

    The apictl commands here onwards are executed with the -k flag to avoid SSL verification with the microgateway.

    To communicate via https without skipping SSL verification (without -k flag), add the cert in the Microgateway truststore into the `<USER_HOME>/.wso2apictl/certs` folder.

> ### Step 4 - Login to the Mcrogateway Environment in apictl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4 - Log on to the Microgateway Environment in apictl
```

Author: Added the changes

> You can use the following command to login to the above microgateway cluster (in other words login to the microgateway adapter). By logging in, an access token will be retrived from the microgateway and saved in apictl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following command to log on to the above Microgateway cluster (in other words log on to the Microgateway adapter). When logging on, an access token will be retrieved from the Microgateway and saved in `apictl`.
```

Author: Added the changes

``` bash
apictl mg login dev -k
```

or

``` bash
apictl mg login dev -u admin -p admin -k
```

### Step 5 - Deploy the API

Now let's deploy the API to Microgateway by executing the following command.

``` bash
apictl mg deploy api -f <path_to_the_API_project_just_created>/petstore -e dev -k
```

That's it!

> More apictl commands related to microgateway can be found at [Managing Microgateway with apictl]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/managing-microgateways/managing-microgateways-with-ctl)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More apictl commands related to Microgateway can be found at [Managing Microgateway with apictl]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/managing-microgateways/managing-microgateways-with-ctl).
```

Author: Added the changes
